# CS-340
Client/Server Development
<br/><br/>

How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?<br/><br/>
    Writing programs that are maintainable seems the most straightforward. To maintain a program would mean to add functionality and keep it current, which just means you have to really make things modular and reusable. This helps build on a program without having to rewrite things all the time. Readability means following a logical order in your code and making thorough comments that tell the reader what they are looking at. Adaptability is similar to maintainability. If your code is modular and you have it set so that each function does basically 1 thing, then that function can be adapted to about any other incoming or outgoing data type to adapt to what you need at a given moment.
<br/><br/>
How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?<br/><br/>
    As a computer scientist, I would approach a problem by looking at the desired outcome and first determining the tools I would need to get there. Then, I would build the most base-level tools first, and finally build the code that runs those lower-level functions. This project was very different than other courses. This was my first time using databases at all. It was interesting to approach this by building a database, building the CRUD module, and then using that to build the interactive page. Before I would simply use arrays and vectors and objects themselves as my storage mechanisms. That is taxing, especially when you have tons of data. This project went much further than that. I will definitely use the techniques learend here, including and especially the CRUD module. I am already thinking about how to adapt that to a SQL database I am building for my own website project. Aggregation will be a valuable tool if I ever work on something with tons of data and limited search time.
    <br/><br/>
What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?<br/><br/>
    Computer scientists solve problems. They develop software that can process data at speeds that humans simply cannot achieve manually and do precise calculations that are cumbersome and prone to error. They build things that help people and businesses do their jobs and live their lives better. This matters because computers have changed the way the world works. Without computers and computer scientists, fancy animated entertainment (like 3D graphics films) would not exist, video games would be gone, and simple things like adding up the number of employees for various companies throughout states would take hours instead of seconds. Work on a project like this could help companies find what they need fast and with low overhead. In this project, the company had a specific type of dog and age range they wanted for each task. Researching that by hand would take hours with the 10,000 dog records. This project makes that job fast, effective, and expandable. If they added another 10,000 dogs, it would still work. So, the work is done once instead of every time new data is added.
